docs: transfer set up from a covenant signer to a covenant emulator (#50)
babylonlabs-io/covenant-emulator: covenant-signer/docs/transition-from-phase1.md

Reviewer: Nice doc :tada:

```shell
cd covenant-signer
make install
```

This command will:
- Build and compile all Go packages
- Install `covenant-signer` binary to `$GOPATH/bin`
- Make it globally accessible from your terminal

If your shell cannot find the installed binary, make sure `$GOPATH/bin` is in
the `$PATH` of your shell. Use the following command to add it to your profile
depending on your shell.

```shell
export PATH=$HOME/go/bin:$PATH
echo 'export PATH=$HOME/go/bin:$PATH' >> ~/.profile
```

## 3. Transitioning your covenant key from phase-1 setup

After installing the necessary binaries, we are ready
to transition our covenant private key from the `bitcoind` wallet
into a Cosmos keyring. This is necessary as the `bitcoind` wallet
does not have support for important covenant signer operations,
such as the generation of adaptor signatures.

To complete this process, you are going to need to have access
to the machine that holds your `bitcoind` wallet and
know the Bitcoin address associated with your covenant's public key.
If you need a refresher on the functionalities supported by your
`bitcoind` wallet or how you previously set it up, you can refer

> to the relevant phase-1 guide.

Reviewer: [phase-1 guide](link)

In the following, we'll go through all the necessary steps
to transition your wallet.

#### Step 1: Load wallet

We start off by loading the wallet holding the covenant keys,
using the `loadwallet` command. It receives as an argument
the wallet directory or `.dat` file. In the below example,
we are loading the wallet named `covenant-wallet`.

```shell
bitcoin-cli loadwallet "covenant-wallet"
{
  "name": "covenant-wallet"
}
```

#### Step 2: Extract the covenant address' `hdkeypath`

Next, we are going to retrieve the `hdkeypath` of the Bitcoin address
associated with our covenant key.

We do this through the usage of the `getaddresssinfo` command
which takes your covenant Bitcoin address as a parameter. As mentioned above, 
you will need access to the Bitcoin key you set up your covenant with.

```shell

> bitcoin-cli getaddressinfo bcrt1qazasawj3ard0ffwj04zpxlw2pt9cp7kwmnqyvk | jq .hdkeypath

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bitcoin-cli -datadir=./1/ getaddressinfo bcrt1q3pxe327k2h3rzcq77w5y7dz7uwl6wve664n490 | jq '.hdkeypath | gsub("^m/"; "")'
```

with the sub the output is what we want `84h/1h/0h/0/0`

Reviewer: "m/84h/1h/0h/0/0" => "84h/1h/0h/0"

"m/84h/1h/0h/0/0"
```

In the above command, we use the `jq` utility to extract only the relevant `hdkeypath`
information, which in this example is `84h/1h/0h/0/0` (the initial `m/` can be ignored).

Make note of the `hdkeypath` information - you'll need it later when
deriving the covenant private key from the master key for verification purposes.

#### Step 3: Retrieve the master private key

In this step,
we are going to retrieve the **base58-encoded master private key** from the Bitcoin wallet. 
This key will be used to derive the covenant private key, which can then be 
imported directly into the Cosmos keyring.

The command below will list all descriptors in the wallet with private keys. 
This will provide you with the descriptor needed to derive the private key. 

Since Bitcoin wallets typically contain multiple descriptors 
(usually 6 by default), we use `jq` to find the specific descriptor that

> matches our previously saved `hdkeypath` in this example `(84h/1h/0h/0/0)` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
matches our previously saved `hdkeypath` in this example `(84h/1h/0h/0)`  
```

needs to remove the last part "/0"

and extract the master private key from it.

So, before you run this command you will need to replace the `<hdkeypath>` below 
with the one you retrieved in step 2.

> ```shell

Reviewer: we could also just replace it all with 
```shell

PATH_TO_HDKEY=$(bitcoin-cli -datadir=./1/ getaddressinfo bcrt1q3pxe327k2h3rzcq77w5y7dz7uwl6wve664n490 | \
 jq -r '.hdkeypath | sub("^m/"; "") | sub("/[^/]+$"; "")') && \

bitcoin-cli -datadir=./1/ listdescriptors true | \
 jq --arg path "$PATH_TO_HDKEY" '.descriptors[] | select(.desc | contains($path)) | .desc | match("tprv[^/]+").string'

"tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPd6STaazzhgLS8RDbPp5oKU7j9CGdxcYUtUGe3pMYLAPhecNAdyUjbogsZHC37kbHw5JRD3nZvi6A7Nd9FtA9F8YopWc5kwE"
```

  .descriptors[] |
  select(.desc | contains("<hdkeypath>")) |
  .desc
' descriptors.json
{
  wpkh(tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPe9aCeUQgMEMy2YMZ6PHnn2iCuG12y5E8oYhYNEvUqUkNy6sJ7ViBmFUMicikHSK2LBUNPx5do5EDJBjG7puwd6azci2wEdq/84h/1h/0h/0/*)#sachkrde
}
```

As you can see above there is a concatenated string of your private key and 
part of your `hdkeypath`. To extract the private key:

1. Remove everything outside the parentheses `wpkh(` and `)`
2. Remove the `hdkeypath` after the private key 
(everything after and including `/`)

You'll be left with just the **base58-encoded master private key**, similar to 
below:

```
tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPe9aCeUQgMEMy2YMZ6PHnn2iCuG12y5E8oYhYNEvUqUkNy6sJ7ViBmFUMicikHSK2LBUNPx5do5EDJBjG7puwd6azci2wEdq
```
Now you have your **base58-encoded master private key**.
You can now pass the above information to the `covenant-signer` binary to 
derive the covenant private key from the master key using **BIP32 derivation**.

Use the following command to derive the covenant private key:

```shell
covenant-signer derive-child-key \
    tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPe9aCeUQgMEMy2YMZ6PHnn2iCuG12y5E8oYhYNEvUqUkNy6sJ7ViBmFUMicikHSK2LBUNPx5do5EDJBjG7puwd6azci2wEdq \
    84h/1h/0h/0/0

> {

Reviewer: on my end it is printing without json, which is weird 

```
./build/covenant-signer derive-child-key tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPd6STaazzhgLS8RDbPp5oKU7j9CGdxcYUtUGe3pMYLAPhecNAdyUjbogsZHC37kbHw5JRD3nZvi6A7Nd9FtA9F8YopWc5kwE 84h/1h/0h/0/0
Derived private key: 94874cc9c2403f5f213c2301cf5a3eca8a771e0ee87332b783bafb541f0aaf01
Derived public key: 033b4d0a21c0460dff17e34a5543d2ff5e85f10bd32afdfb4223665694b8daad1d
```

it should print as json, maybe we should modify the cli

Reviewer: I think we should print as json, maybe should modify the CLI to accept json output flag printing 
what do you think? @KonradStaniec

Reviewer 2: We should output here whatever the CLI now supports. If we don't support JSON atm, let's update the doc here, no need to block due to lack of JSON support

- Names the key `cov` in the keyring
- Uses the secure `file` backend which encrypts the key on disk
- Will prompt you for a passphrase to encrypt the key

The passphrase you set here will be needed later on, keep this in mind.

> ⚡ Note: While both `os` and `file` backends are supported, we recommend 
using the `file` backend as it has been thoroughly tested across different 
environments. The `file` backend stores the private key in encrypted form 
on disk. When running `import-hex` with the `file` backend, you will be 
prompted for a passphrase. This passphrase will be required to unlock the 
signer later.

To confirm that the import was successful, run:

```shell
babylond keys show cov
```

The output will display the details of the imported key:

```shell
    address: bbn1azasawj3ard0ffwj04zpxlw2pt9cp7kwjcdqmc
    name: cov
    pubkey: '{"@type":"/cosmos.crypto.secp256k1.PubKey","key":"Ajp5tUbHnX98X/IGINkUtc9yUGMdEvbiZCftnT+Yxcyx"}'
    type: local
```

Congratulations! You have successfully imported your key.

## 4. Operation
### 4.1. Configuration

Next, we can return to the covenant signer directory 
and create your own configuration file.

> Use the example configuration [file](../example/config.toml) to create your own 

Reviewer: maybe add `covenant-signer dump-cfg ` option

configuration file. Then, replace the placeholder values with your own 
configuration. This can be placed directly in the `covenant-signer` directory.

```toml
[keystore]
keystore-type = "cosmos"

[keystore.cosmos]
# pointing to the directory where the key is stored, unless specified otherwise
key-directory = "/path/to/keydir"

# the backend to be used for storing the key, in this case file
keyring-backend = "file"

# the name of the key you used when importing the key
key-name = "your-key-name"

# the chain id of the chain to be used
chain-id = "your-chain-id"

[server-config]
# The IP address where the covenant-signer server will listen
host = "127.0.0.1"
# The TCP port number where the covenant-signer server will listen
port = 9791

[metrics]
# The IP address where the Prometheus metrics server will listen
host = "127.0.0.1"
# This port is used to expose metrics that can be scraped by Prometheus
port = 2113
```

Below are brief explanations of the configuration entries:

- `keystore-type`: Type of keystore used. Should be set to `"cosmos"`

> - `key-directory`: Path where keys are stored on the filesystem.

Reviewer: alert that the key-directory should be without the suffix of the keyring-backend type

like the expected is `github.com/babylonlabs-io/covenant-emulator/covenant-signer/test-bbn` instead of `github.com/babylonlabs-io/covenant-emulator/covenant-signer/test-bbn/keyring-file`

- `host` (metrics): IP address for the Prometheus metrics server, typically "127.0.0.1".
- `port` (metrics): TCP port number for the Prometheus metrics server.

### 4.2. Starting the daemon

We will then run the following command to start the daemon:

```shell
covenant-signer start --config ./path/to/config.toml
```

The covenant signer must be run in a secure network and only accessible by the 
covenant emulator.

Once the covenant signer is set up and unlocked, you can configure the covenant 
emulator to use it. The URL of the covenant signer is configurable (`remotesigner` section)
but in this example we use the default value of 
`http://127.0.0.1:9791`.

### 4.3. Unlocking the key

Before you can sign transactions with the covenant key, you must unlock the 
keyring that stores it. This happens through a `POST` request
on the `v1/unlock` endpoint with a payload containing
the covenant keyring passphrase.

```shell
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:9791/v1/unlock -d '{"passphrase": "<passphrase>"}'
```

You can sign transactions by invoking the `v1/sign-transactions` endpoint,
which expects staking and unbonding transactions in hex format.

```shell

> curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:9791/v1/sign-transactions \

Reviewer: we should give a full correct staking tx to test

You'll be left with just the **base58-encoded master private key**, similar to 
below:

```
tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPe9aCeUQgMEMy2YMZ6PHnn2iCuG12y5E8oYhYNEvUqUkNy6sJ7ViBmFUMicikHSK2LBUNPx5do5EDJBjG7puwd6azci2wEdq
```
Now you have your **base58-encoded master private key**.
You can now pass the above information to the `covenant-signer` binary to 
derive the covenant private key from the master key using **BIP32 derivation**.

Use the following command to derive the covenant private key:

```shell
covenant-signer derive-child-key \
    tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPe9aCeUQgMEMy2YMZ6PHnn2iCuG12y5E8oYhYNEvUqUkNy6sJ7ViBmFUMicikHSK2LBUNPx5do5EDJBjG7puwd6azci2wEdq \
    84h/1h/0h/0/0
{
  "derived_private_key": "fe1c56c494c730f13739c0655bf06e615409870200047fc65cdf781837cf7f06",
  "derived_public_key": "023a79b546c79d7f7c5ff20620d914b5cf7250631d12f6e26427ed9d3f98c5ccb1"
}
```

Parameters:
- `<master-private-key>`: The base58-encoded master private key from your 
Bitcoin wallet (first parameter)
- `<derivation-path>`: The HD derivation path that specifies how to derive 
the child key (second parameter)

To verify, you can execute the following

```shell
bitdoind getaddressinfo <address> | jq .publickey
```

> If the public key matches the derived_public_key output from the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the public key matches the `derived_public_key` output from the 
```

`derive-child-key` command, the verification is successful.

#### Step 4: Import the private key into a Cosmos Keyring

Next, we are going to import the derived private key into the Cosmos keyring.

> At the moment, the `covenant-signer` has not implemented functionality

Reviewer 2: Has this been implemented?

for Cosmos key imports. To overcome this, we are going to utilize
the Babylon node binary `babylond` which has support for them.
You can install the binary by following the first section of the
[Babylon Node Setup Guide](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/networks/blob/main/bbn-test-5/babylon-node/README.md).

One you have the `babylond` binary installed,
navigate to the directory you want to set up your keyring and run:

```shell
babylond keys import-hex cov fe1c56c494c730f13739c0655bf06e615409870200047fc65cdf781837cf7f06 \
    --keyring-backend file \
    --keyring-dir /path/to/your/keyring/directory
```

This command:
- Uses `import-hex` to import the raw private key
- Names the key `cov` in the keyring
- Uses the secure `file` backend which encrypts the key on disk
- Will prompt you for a passphrase to encrypt the key

> The passphrase you set here will be needed later on, keep this in mind.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the passphrase you set here will be needed later on
to unlock the keyring.
```

> > ⚡ Note: While both `os` and `file` backends are supported, we recommend 
> using the `file` backend as it has been thoroughly tested across different 
> environments. The `file` backend stores the private key in encrypted form 
> on disk. When running `import-hex` with the `file` backend, you will be 
> prompted for a passphrase. This passphrase will be required to unlock the 
> signer later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> ⚡ Note: While both `os` and `file` backends are supported, the authors
> of the docs have more thoroughly tested the `file` backend across
> different environments.
> The `file` backend stores the private key in encrypted form 
> on disk. When running `import-hex` with the `file` backend, you will be 
> prompted for a passphrase. This passphrase will be required to unlock the 
> signer later.
```

To confirm that the import was successful, run:

```shell

> babylond keys show cov

Reviewer 2: Note to update this with `covenant-signer`

```

The output will display the details of the imported key:

```shell
    address: bbn1azasawj3ard0ffwj04zpxlw2pt9cp7kwjcdqmc
    name: cov
    pubkey: '{"@type":"/cosmos.crypto.secp256k1.PubKey","key":"Ajp5tUbHnX98X/IGINkUtc9yUGMdEvbiZCftnT+Yxcyx"}'
    type: local
```

Congratulations! You have successfully imported your key.

## 4. Operation
### 4.1. Configuration

Next, we can return to the covenant signer directory 
and create your own configuration file. Use the 
following command to dump the configuration template:

```shell
covenant-signer dump-cfg --config <path-to-config-file>
```

This will create a configuration file, from the example configuration, 
in the specified path.

Replace the placeholder values with your own 

> configuration. This can be placed directly in the `covenant-signer` directory.

Reviewer 2: What's the `covenant-signer` directory and what can be placed directly inside it?

If there's a need for a specific directory we need to instruct people to create it. If there's a need for a configuration file to be there, we should instruct them to place it there.

Reviewer 2: But the covenant signer binary is in the global directory, no?

```toml
[keystore]

> keystore-type = "cosmos"

Reviewer 2: Let's add a comment here on what this means?

[keystore.cosmos]
# pointing to the directory where the key is stored, unless specified otherwise
key-directory = "/path/to/keydir"

> # the backend to be used for storing the key, in this case file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# the backend to be used for storing the key, in this case `file`
```

keyring-backend = "file"

> # the name of the key you used when importing the key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# the key name you specified when importing your covenant key
```

key-name = "your-key-name"

> # the chain id of the chain to be used

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# the chain id of the chain the covenant will connect to
```

> chain-id = "your-chain-id"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
chain-id = "network-chain-id"
```

[server-config]
# The IP address where the covenant-signer server will listen
host = "127.0.0.1"
# The TCP port number where the covenant-signer server will listen
port = 9791

[metrics]
# The IP address where the Prometheus metrics server will listen
host = "127.0.0.1"

> # This port is used to expose metrics that can be scraped by Prometheus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# # The TCP port number where the Prometheus metrics server will listen
```

- The `derive-child-key` command output in this step

This verification ensures you've extracted the correct master private key from 
the descriptor.

#### Step 4: Import the private key into a Cosmos Keyring

Now that we have the derived private key, we need to import it into the Cosmos keyring. 
This requires access to the `babylond` binary, which is part of your Babylon node 
installation. Navigate to your Babylon node directory and run:

As mentioned in the prerequisites, you need access to a Babylon node 
(either remote or on your machine) because we need the `babylond` binary to 
import the private key into the Cosmos keyring. The `covenant-signer` itself 
does not currently support key imports. For help setting up a Babylon node, 
refer to the 
[Babylon Node Setup Guide](https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/networks/bbn-test-5/babylon-node/README.md).

Now that we have the derived private key, we'll use the `babylond` binary from 
your Babylon node installation to import it into the Cosmos keyring. Navigate to
your Babylon node directory and run:

```shell
babylond keys import-hex cov fe1c56c494c730f13739c0655bf06e615409870200047fc65cdf781837cf7f06 --keyring-backend file

> ```

Reviewer 3: for operations only on keyrings `--keyring-dir` flag is better suited to point to location of the keyring

> ```

Reviewer 2: sounds good!

This command:
- Uses `import-hex` to import the raw private key
- Names the key `cov` in the keyring
- Uses the secure `file` backend which encrypts the key on disk
- Will prompt you for a passphrase to encrypt the key

The passphrase you set here will be needed later when unlocking the signer to 
perform signing operations.

> > ⚡ Note: Use the `file` backend to store the private key in encrypted form on 

Reviewer 3: I think we cannot prevent user from using os backend, but tbh I would discourage it.

Main reason to discourage it is the complexity i.e if we want to support it we would need to experiment with those os based keyring on every platform (linux/mac/windows) and have docs for those. 

Encrypted file based keyring is conceptually simpler while preserving guarantees from phase-1 and accomplishing all requirements.

> > ⚡ Note: Use the `file` backend to store the private key in encrypted form on 

Reviewer 2: ok we can write this in the guide then, i.e. "you can use both os and file, but this guide has been tested with the file keyring, and we can't guarantee that os will work on all operating systems"

### 4.1. Configuration

Next, we can return to the covenant signer directory 
and create your own configuration file.

Use the example configuration [file](../example/config.toml) to create your own 
configuration file. Then, replace the placeholder values with your own 
configuration. This can be placed directly in the `covenant-signer` directory.

```toml
[keystore]
keystore-type = "cosmos"

[keystore.cosmos]
# pointing to the directory where the key is stored, unless specified otherwise
key-directory = "/path/to/keydir"

# the backend to be used for storing the key, in this case file
keyring-backend = "file"

# the name of the key you used when importing the key
key-name = "your-key-name"

# the chain id of the chain to be used
chain-id = "your-chain-id"

[server-config]
# The IP address where the covenant-signer server will listen
host = "127.0.0.1"
# The TCP port number where the covenant-signer server will listen
port = 9791

[metrics]
# The IP address where the Prometheus metrics server will listen
host = "127.0.0.1"
# This port is used to expose metrics that can be scraped by Prometheus
port = 2113
```

Below are brief explanations of the configuration entries:

> - `keystore-type`: Type of keystore used, which is "cosmos"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `keystore-type`: Type of keystore used. Should be set to `"cosmos"`
```

- `key-directory`: Path where keys are stored on the filesystem.
- `keyring-backend`: Backend system for key management, e.g., "file", "os".
- `key-name`: Name of the key used for signing transactions.

> - `chain-id`: Identifier of the blockchain network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `chain-id`: The Chain ID of the Babylon network you connect to.
```

- `host` (server-config): IP address where the server listens, typically "127.0.0.1" for local access.
- `port` (server-config): TCP port number for the server.
- `host` (metrics): IP address for the Prometheus metrics server, typically "127.0.0.1".
- `port` (metrics): TCP port number for the Prometheus metrics server.

### 4.2. Starting the daemon

> We then will run the following command to start the daemon from the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will then run the following command to start the daemon from the 
```

Reviewer 2: no need to have it then

`covenant-signer` directory:

```shell
covenant-signer start --config ./path/to/config.toml
```

The covenant signer must be run in a secure network and only accessible by the 
covenant emulator.

> Once the covenant signer is set up and unlocked, you can configure the covenant 

Reviewer 2: We have not introduced the concept of "unlocking" yet.

emulator to use it. The URL of the covenant signer is configurable (`remotesigner` section)
but in this example we use the default value of 
`http://127.0.0.1:9791`.

### 4.3. Unlocking the key

Before you can sign transactions with the covenant key, you must unlock the 
keyring that stores it. This happens through a `POST` request

> on the `v1/unlock` endpoint with a payload containing

Reviewer 2: I guess we need a CLI command on performing this as well cc @KonradStaniec

Reviewer 3: humh yup this is for operator of the program so 👍

Reviewer 3: https://github.com/babylonlabs-io/covenant-emulator/issues/61

the covenant keyring passphrase.

```shell
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:9791/v1/unlock -d '{"passphrase": "<passphrase>"}'
```

> You can sign transactions by invoking the `v1/sign-transactions` endpoint,

Reviewer 2: Same here cc @KonradStaniec

Reviewer 3: hmm this is interface to communicate between covenant emulator and covenant signer so it should not be used by operator so it should be enough for this to remain and endpoint.

which expects staking and unbonding transactions in hex format.

```shell
curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:9791/v1/sign-transactions \
  -d '{
        "staking_tx_hex": "020000000001",
        "slashing_tx_hex": "020000000001...",
        "unbonding_tx_hex": "020000000001...",
        "slash_unbonding_tx_hex": "020000000001...",
        "staking_output_idx": 0,
        "slashing_script_hex": "76a914...",
        "unbonding_script_hex": "76a914...",
        "unbonding_slashing_script_hex": "76a914...",
        "fp_enc_keys": [
            "0123456789abcdef..."
        ]
      }'
```

The above command will generate a signature for the provided
transactions and return it in JSON format.

```json
{
    "staking_tx_signature": "<hex_encoded_signature>",
    "unbonding_tx_signature": "<hex_encoded_signature>"
}
```

These signatures can then be used to verify that the transactions were signed by 
the covenant key.

Congratulations! You have successfully set up the covenant signer and are now able 
to sign transactions with the covenant key.

<!-- TODO: Some nice additional sections
* Testing the setup: e.g. through a healthcheck endpoint
* Prometheus metrics and logs -->

> <!-- RESPONSE: should i put this in an issue  for now as its not a priority?-->

Reviewer 2: yep sounds good
